README.md, before:

The beginnings of an extensible data pipeline in python

### Built With

- [[yfinance][https://pypi.org/project/yfinance/]

### Prerequisites

This project runs on python3 & (To be confirmed)

## Getting started

Download this repository
Create a virtual environment with virtualenv

- Download virtualenv with pip or pip3:
  ```sh
  pip3 install virtualenv
  ```

From folder root, create virtual environment with:

```sh
virtualenv venv
```

Activate the virtual environment:

```sh
source venv/bin/activate
```

Install dependencies:

```sh
pip3 install yfinance
pip3 install python-dotenv (to load environment variables)
pip3 install kensu
pip3 install pyspark==3.3.0 (for custom lineage and data transfer)
pip3 install jupyter (optional)
pip3 install GitPython
```

### Installation notes

- Pandas will be installed by yfinance
  Else please install it independently

### Setting environment variables

If using a .env file to store environment variables such as

- kensu_ingestion_url
- kensu_ingestion_token

Load them in the current shell / terminal with:

```sh
export $(xargs < .env)
```

Within python use this to access the environment variables:

```sh
import os
print(os.environ['kensu_ingestion_url']
```

## Usage

The entry file point is pipeline1.py
This file (includes Kensu observability)

1. Deletes previously downloaded and processed data files in the 'data lake'
2. Downloads and saves a single financial data instrument from yahoo finance with a wrapped yfinance call.
3. Calls the data file 'summarising' function that evaluates the basic statistics of the downloaded files in step one and saves it to another folder.

pipeline1.py is where more processing steps should be added to.

pipeline3.py is the entry point for an emulator that emulates an bot that suggests trade directions based on a weeks worth of data.
It also includes a very basic data quality check before suggesting the trade direction
try it out with:

```sh
python3 pipeline3.py
```

When done running pipelines deactivate the virtual environment with:

```sh
deactivate
```

## Roadmap

- [] Downstream data processors
- [] Prediction with machine learning

## Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks again!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## Contact

contact: contact@kensu.io
This project is supported by: https://www.kensu.io/
Try out the kensu community edition: https://www.kensu.io/community-edition-form

Commit message:

updated README.md with Kensu - Pandas compatibility notes

README.md, after:

The beginnings of an extensible data pipeline in python

### Built With

- [[yfinance][https://pypi.org/project/yfinance/]

### Prerequisites

This project runs on python3 & (To be confirmed)

## Getting started

Download this repository
Create a virtual environment with virtualenv

- Download virtualenv with pip or pip3:
  ```sh
  pip3 install virtualenv
  ```

From folder root, create virtual environment with:

```sh
virtualenv venv
```

Activate the virtual environment:

```sh
source venv/bin/activate
```

Install dependencies:

```sh
pip3 install yfinance
pip3 install python-dotenv (to load environment variables)
pip3 install kensu
pip3 install pyspark==3.3.0 (for custom lineage and data transfer)
pip3 install jupyter (optional)
pip3 install GitPython
pip3 install pandas==1.3.5
```

### Installation notes

- Pandas will be installed by yfinance
  Please replace it with pandas 1.3.5 for Kensu compatibility
  Please install it independently!

### Setting environment variables

If using a .env file to store environment variables such as

- kensu_ingestion_url
- kensu_ingestion_token

Load them in the current shell / terminal with:

```sh
export $(xargs < .env)
```

Within python use this to access the environment variables:

```sh
import os
print(os.environ['kensu_ingestion_url']
```

## Usage

The entry file point is pipeline1.py
This file (includes Kensu observability)

1. Deletes previously downloaded and processed data files in the 'data lake'
2. Downloads and saves a single financial data instrument from yahoo finance with a wrapped yfinance call.
3. Calls the data file 'summarising' function that evaluates the basic statistics of the downloaded files in step one and saves it to another folder.

pipeline1.py is where more processing steps should be added to.

pipeline3.py is the entry point for an emulator that emulates an bot that suggests trade directions based on a weeks worth of data.
It also includes a very basic data quality check before suggesting the trade direction
try it out with:

```sh
python3 pipeline3.py
```

When done running pipelines deactivate the virtual environment with:

```sh
deactivate
```

## Roadmap

- [] Downstream data processors
- [] Prediction with machine learning

## Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks again!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## Contact

contact: contact@kensu.io
This project is supported by: https://www.kensu.io/
Try out the kensu community edition: https://www.kensu.io/community-edition-form
